you learn from the women in your life
you learn from them
more than you want to admit to yourself
you're learning
the really simple point i want to make
in this video and not for the first time
is that these guys who are into this
no-fap ideology these guys who are into
a lot of these kind of anti-woman
vaguely misogynistic ideologies like
mgtow
men going their own way and this [ __ ] i
really think they haven't even
considered i think they haven't
given enough thought to the possibility
that a woman can play a positive
role in their lives that a woman doesn't
necessarily
subtract from your ambition that a woman
doesn't reduce
your ability to pursue the goals that
really matter in life that she can
add to that she can add to that ambition
and this even comes down to a little bit
of a kind of biological
misconception i mean the no fat movement
they really regard women as vampires
because they think women rob them of
their mental energy that women
rob them of their imagination and they
robbed them of their ambition like
on a chemical level
complete nonsense and as you know apart
from wanting to say look
women can give you more ambition and
more drive and more energy
mentally and otherwise the idea that
this relationship
can play a really positive role
in you pursuing your goals a lot of
these guys seem to have just never
thought that through um
what is my fundamental objection to the
advice that bay zeus is giving young men
my fundamental objection is not
that the advice doesn't work
the advice can work i think everyone
knows that
what even if it's one out of a hundred
or one out of a thousand or one out of
ten thousand eventually
his advice will get results for people
and for some people
the success rate is going to be enough
to positively reinforce those behaviors
again and again
so to give an example part big part of
his advice is just walking up to random
women at the gym
and you know talking game to them well
if a guy does that and it works once
in his mind that's probably going to
justify doing it a thousand more times
even if it it fails 999 times
and then works one more time again it's
really easy for me to see how that can
lead to a self-reinforcing loop of
behaviors
and on a deeper level a set of values
that changes who you are as a man
and that's the side of the equation i
wanted to draw attention to
in this hopefully concise video okay
i can't say that it won't work
that it won't get results if you send
out
nude photos of yourself to a thousand
women there there's a whole side of the
internet that exists for that reason
there are you know there are special
websites where that's encouraged but
that's acceptable
and again i don't know if it works one
time out of a thousand or one time out
of ten thousand
i can't tell you not to do that because
it won't work
i'm telling you not to do that because
i'm asking you to think about
what kind of a man you want to be
and who you want to become and not even
all that long
term i mean today i mean this year i
mean just the next couple of years
and the type of women you're courting
and the way you're meeting them the way
you're pursuing them
the relationships you bring into your
life and what you learn from them
that is a big part of who you are as a
man
that is a big part of who you become
okay there's a lyric in a 50 cent song
where he talks about
he advises his listener don't chase
women
chase money because when you chase money
the women come with it
very common sentiment in our society
today very common advice from pickup
artists
who just say well focus on your career
in order to get laid
you got to think that through that's
going to change how you think about your
career
how you value things how you behave in
your career that also
changes who you are as a man
in ways both shallow and profound all
right and i just want to throw in a few
words here of self-criticism
right now and in the last three years
i meet women through youtube i'm in a
committed relationship
i met her on youtube if someone who knew
me before
my life before this said to me hey man
you've changed
you've changed since you started
pursuing women on the internet this way
i'd say yes you're damn right i have i'm
not
i'm sorry that makes it sound like i'm
private you're damn right i have no
i i have changed and i'm self-critical
and i'm self-aware of that
i have changed and you know what before
i used to meet women at the university
library i used to meet women at academic
conferences
i used to meet women at manuscriptoria
and national archives and [ __ ] okay
i'm so critical about that too i'm not
like saying to you in a simple black and
white sense like meeting women at the
gym is bad
and meeting women at an academic
conference for cancer research
is good i'm not saying that if you go to
academic conferences
you can see and feel the difference
between the guys who are just there for
the conference who are just there to
present their research
just there to talk about their paper
whatever it is and the guys who are
there
hoping to meet a member of the opposite
sex or maybe hoping to be a member of
the same sex
the guys who are there looking for that
whole range of human experiences from
one-night stands to commitment
relationships
with a lot of gray areas in between it
changes you
it changes what you're doing at that
conference and the way you're doing it
it changes whether or not you got your
hair and you got your your suit on point
where you go to the conference
sure that's a shallow level but i'm
telling you in a profound
sense that there really is a difference
between the dudes
who are who are doing a job who become a
lawyer who are pursuing that social
status in order to get laid
and the guys who are becoming a lawyer
sure to make the world a better place
to do human rights law do something else
and there were guys doing human rights
law to get laid
because that's what they were doing you
know yes
this is something that changes who you
are and how you're living
in all these walks of life
it's really easy for you to think you
have one part of your life that's your
career
one part of your life that's your
education and a separate part of your
life a separate compartment
that's your sexuality fundamentally i
want to tell you
that's just not so you learn a lot
and you change a lot given the women you
open
the door to in your life the women who
come into your into your bedroom
the women who come into your life the
women you share your time with
the women you're eating breakfast with
all that is built into even one-night
stands
let alone long-term relationships or
attempted long-term relationships
that maybe don't turn out to be so
long-term okay you
learn from the women in your life you
learn from
them more than you want to admit to
yourself
you're learning whether you're dating
shallow hoe bags you met at a bar
random chicks you met at the gym or
women you met at an academic conference
about cancer
you're learning all the time you can't
turn that off
you're changing the type of man you are
how you conduct yourself in pursuing
women and then what happens
after that when you bring those women
into your life when you do get laid
when the advice does work that changes
you in ways
you can't fully anticipate you can't
fully understand yourself
and that's why i find the advice from
basus
so dangerous it's not because it doesn't
work
but because it fails to appreciate that
your sexuality
just like your politics ultimately is a
decision
about what kind of man you want to be
what kind of person
you want to become and of course i mean
i'm the last person to come on here and
give you a candy-coated
version of reality in some ways my first
marriage
that has ended in divorce was the
perfect marriage
in so many ways i can say wonderful
things about it
you know i can say terrible things about
it too but i mean
you know when i was younger i was really
looking for a woman
who would understand me why because
unlike a lot of these guys who talk
about
being self-reliant and independent as an
abstract virtue
i actually was self-reliant and
independent
i was doing independent research i was
teaching myself languages
teaching yourself a language with no
teacher and no classroom
it's incredibly hard work i was
undertaking original research and even
doing very independent things in terms
of my career and
earning money and you know what that
independence gets you
it gets you alone there's a difference
between being lonely
and being alone i was alone
and you know when i was younger it
really meant a lot to me to have a woman
in my life
who would sit down at the breakfast
table and be able to understand
what motivated me in life understand the
project it was under taking
understand the direction i was going in
life who could sit down with me at the
breakfast table
and even if she's not involved even if
she's not part of the project
who could really contribute positively
to my aspirations and goals
and you know what i've i've outgrown it
i don't even care about any of that
stuff anymore that's the bizarre thing
i feel like i've got to come on here and
maybe give younger guys advice
that was based on who i was when i was a
younger man
but i don't care about any of that stuff
anymore i mean the marriage i had
my first marriage i'd say in some ways
really meaningfully was the perfect
marriage
i got married to a woman with a phd in
cultural anthropology
a woman who really deeply understood not
just the research i was doing on paper
like research involving books and
libraries and archives and history
and politics and publications but a
woman who understood
the importance of the work i did in
terms of field work in terms of going
out in the field
and talking to people face to face and
making things happen in the real world
who understood what i had going on in
terms of charity work and everything
else
and who played this wonderful supportive
role in my life and in so many ways i
feel like i want to come on here on
camera
and say to these guys who are into nofap
you can have this too
you can find a woman who doesn't
subtract from your ambitions but adds to
them and on a physical biological level
you can have a sex life
that doesn't leave you feeling exhausted
and demoralized
that leaves you feeling more energized
and more motivated and more inspired
with more imagination
you can have that but the ambivalence i
have
is that the the truth is now at age 38
i don't need any of that stuff and again
i mean you know
i don't want to glorify that either it's
you know
for me i reached a point in terms of my
maturity i've been so isolated for so
long and you know some of my earlier
girlfriends they really did not
understand who i was
i ever once had that i mean unless you
unless you've never had a girlfriend
never had a boyfriend
you know what it's like to be in a
relationship where no matter how well
you explain yourself
this person is never going to get you
you know this or for whatever reason
and it is not even because they don't
love you i've been in relationships with
a girl loves me so much
she has so much love for me but her love
blinds her
to who i really am and no matter how
clearly i explain no matter how much i
explain who i am
she's in love with an image of me she
has in her own head she loves me to bits
really loves me but she's never going to
understand me she's never going to know
who i am
so you know definitely when i was
younger there was wanting to be
understood
and there was wanting to have a woman
who plays that supportive
role in my pursuit of my own ambitions
but now at age 38
i don't give a damn about any of that
stuff i don't need a woman to understand
me
and i'm now at a point where i can be
completely comfortable
being in a relationship with a woman who
has none of that stuff in common with me
who can't relate to and can't understand
my background my professional background
my research background my aspirations in
in
in that respect um
damn so look this is really what i think
is the challenge for these
younger guys and maybe it's still a
challenge for some for some older guys
too
one you have to know what your ambitions
are
don't of course i mean it goes without
saying don't start from this
misconception that the woman is only
going to be an obstacle to your
ambitions
that the woman is going to be a
distraction from your ambitions that the
woman is going to subtract from your
vision the woman
can play a positive role in your life
in adding to you know your ambitions and
assisting you in your pursuit of
ambitions
and by the same token you as the man you
have to play the same positive role in
her life
and you have to work at it somebody was
just saying in my in my
stream they said oh well why can't you
just be in a relationship and just be
yourself
[ __ ] that okay what if your next
girlfriend what if your next wife
wants to be a surgeon and is going
through medical school
you've got to take it you as the man you
got to change your life
to play a supportive role for her doing
that okay
it goes both ways and you're not going
to do that by just being yourself
what if you know the next woman involved
with is literally a
farmer she's involved in agronomy she's
studying you know the science and
practical
work of how to perform you think i'm not
going to change you think i'm going to
just be myself
[ __ ] that don't just be yourself
change who you are and work hard at it
hit the books hit the gym
hit the farm whatever hit whatever you
gotta hit for you as a man to change
so you are consciously changing your
life
so you play a supportive role in for her
and the pursuit of her ambitions
and for you step one is you got to know
what your ambitions are you've got to be
honest with yourself of what your
ambitions are
and then you have to learn to
communicate to her
what the positive role is she can play
in helping you in the support of
in the pursuit of your ambitions and
that's hard to do for most men most men
are terrible
at communicating that most men are
terrible about being honest with
themselves about what their
ambitions are and the problem is if
you're talking about a long-term
relationship
your ambitions are going to change okay
there was a time when i was in southeast
asia
pursuing a combination of humanitarian
work
you know politics history like i was
doing research on the history of slavery
um and you know buddhism
was a huge part of my life there's no
way to you know
buddhism was connected to all those
things my research in the history of
buddhism
was linked to the history of slavery and
you know communism
and the war and post-war reconstruction
all this meaningful stuff going on in my
life
and you know what that ended then there
was a point in my life where that was
over and that was in the past tense
and i took on a totally new direction in
my research and my passions
and i was expecting the same woman to
stay with me
and i was expecting the same woman who
played a supportive role in my life when
we were living in cambodia together
to play a totally different role
supporting me in my ambitions
when we moved to canada together okay so
being honest with yourself about what
your ambitions are
and what the role is the woman you what
role you want her to play
that that's very very hard to
communicate and it's going to happen
both ways
and it's going to mean work it's not
going to mean just being yourself
it's not going to mean just being loving
or loving the other person
all right um it's going to be work for
her
and it's going to be work for you too
um and i guess i mean my point is now
now that i'm so old now than 38
maybe if you don't need her to play any
supportive role at all
maybe maybe if you're that guy maybe
that's also what you got to communicate
the example i used in my first video on
this that was really spontaneous and
almost joking
is actually a really good example to
come back to though
if you are a guy who is into
repairing automobiles what you like to
do is go in your garage
and take a broken down car and fix it up
it's very unlikely that you will have a
girlfriend
who is literally in the garage with you
holding a wrench
hands-on helping you with that task
right maybe maybe you do
some guys have a girlfriend and they're
involved to that extent some guys
even if their girlfriend could be in the
garage they don't want them to be
they don't want them to play that role
but what is the role
you want her to play maybe if you're
really being honest with yourself and
you can really communicate it to her
maybe the role you want her to play is
that when she sits down at the breakfast
table
she's talking to you about what's going
on in your projects she's asking you
about what's going on in the garage
she's talking through with you
your plans and your ambitions in a way
that you find
positive and supportive and meaningful
and wonderful and that again
inspires you to do more makes you more
energized it's not
this is not a vampire pulling something
away from you maybe it just is
those positive understanding
conversations at the breakfast table
and there are guys watching this are
going to hear that and say
no you're dead wrong there are guys
hearing this who will look back on every
relationship they've ever had and say no
i dread that there are guys are going to
watch this and say they wake up every
morning
and what they fear most is having to sit
down at the breakfast table
and listen to the inane [ __ ] that
their wife or their girlfriend brings
and they don't want to sit down and
listen to a bunch of questions from
somebody
who doesn't understand them and doesn't
support them and
where that whole breakfast table
conversation is only something that
subtracts from
their ambitions in life and it's an
unwanted source of misery
that they have to deal with guess what
if that's your situation
that's the wrong girl for you and you're
probably the wrong man
for her maybe the problem is just
communication maybe the problem is that
you haven't communicated to her what
your ambitions are
maybe you haven't communicated to her
what the positive role she can play
in you pursuing your ambitions really is
maybe maybe
or maybe your ambitions have changed
since you first got together
like me i switched from cambodia to
canada
maybe when you first got together you
had a totally different set of goals
than you have now in the judgment you
have to reflect that
maybe but maybe this is someone maybe
the particular woman you're with you got
to leave her
and instead of viewing women this way
as always playing a subtractive role
uh uh in in your pursuit of your
ambition subtracting from
your ambition your pursuit of ambition
maybe you need to flip this upside down
and just use it as a criterion
where you promise yourself you're not
going to fall in love with the woman
you're not going to going to get into a
relationship unless she can
play that positive role unless she can
play that supportive role
and um not everybody can
and uh you know in so many cases of
course you just gotta break up and move
on
um no matter how painful that may be
either because
she can't play that role maybe you can't
communicate that that role
or maybe maybe you haven't been honest
with yourself about what your ambitions
really are
and how the other person the
relationship is going to fit into those
ambitions
talk boss featuring words that kill my
slingers editorial explicit material
briefcase show live mysterio flow
filming
donna realty set the black people free
today i'm going to talk about
do steroids make your balls straight
well the answer is
yes they do but